Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the macroverse.
Today, we're going to talk about the
recent FOMC and the fact that it was
Kevin Warsh's first time um on as the
chair at the FOMC. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
So, we're kind of in a new era now.
Jerome Powell is no longer uh speaking
at these FOMC press conferences, so
things are going to be a bit different.
It appears like they are moving away
from forward guidance and are sort of
more so focusing on just stating like
the facts rather than sort of
speculating on on forward forward
guidance. One of the things you'll
notice is that the actual release is a
lot shorter than the normal releases. If
you look at say the last release that we
had back in April, back when Powell was
chair of the Federal Reserve, you can
see it was, you know, almost a page and
a half
uh of of writing here. But, if you go
look at the recent one, it's
you know, it's barely half a page. So,
it's a lot shorter.
I mean, it it mostly conveys the same
sort of the same stuff, but
we're going into a new era, right?
Forward guidance is not going to be uh
something that we're going to be
receiving, and uh it is worth worth
noting that. Now, with that said, we are
still getting the summary of economic
projections. However, Kevin Warsh
did not
add anything to the dot plot himself,
right? So, you can look at what everyone
else was saying, and if you look here at
the chart, it looks like there's about
nine committee members who think that we
should have a rate hike before the end
of the year.
In fact, if you look
at the watch tool, the CME Group watch
tool here, and you look at
probabilities, you can see that the
market is sort of speculating that we
might actually get a rate hike in the
second half of the year. To the tune of
by December, the market is pricing in
only a 15 and 1/2% chance that the Fed
hasn't hiked rates
at that point.
Which is pretty low, right? So,
you know,
one of the things that that Kevin Warsh
should say is is that
you know, inflation is a choice. And
he's right, right? Like he's right.
Inflation is a choice.
Um there are ways to bring it back down.
A lot of times,
you know, some of the main things to
bring it back down,
the powers that be don't really want
that stuff to happen.
Things like lower asset prices uh would
would bring it back down, but that's not
really what, you know, politicians would
want, and so that's usually kind of the
last thing that that that they want to
see happen. But, when you think about,
you know, the last 5 years,
inflation has been above target
basically the entire time,
right? I mean, if you look at at
inflation uh year over year,
I mean, the the target is 2%, right? And
and
while headline inflation did get down
into the twos,
it never actually made it to 2%.
Now, today they talked about, you know,
how Kevin Warsh historically has said
he's more so concerned about what's to
the left of the decimal rather than the
right of the decimal, but
look, we haven't been below 2% inflation
since 2021.
And you know, I mean, it would be nice
if that could change.
I was just looking at at at at you know,
I mean, think about like all the
sporting venues and whatnot. Like I
can't go to a game anymore without it
costing like a ton of money. If you look
at World Cup tickets, like it it's
insane. And I remember when I was a kid
growing up, now I just sound like an old
man, right? But when I was back in my
day, you know, this thing these things
didn't cost nearly this much. Um
and it kind of makes sense like when you
think about
if you're my generation, so uh like I
was born in the '90s, so if you're my
generation, if you're a millennial, then
you've probably grown tired of hearing,
you know, your parents say, "Well, back
when I was a kid, this is what it was."
But look at it. Like look at when your
parents were kids, if they were born in
say like the '50s, '60s, or '70s, how
inflation was relatively low, and then
look at these major inflationary spikes
that we had throughout the 1970s. And
then look at the one we've had
this decade.
The Imagine the one we just had,
but then imagine we get another spike,
and how brutal that would be.
So,
part of the point of this is to say,
"Look,
over the long haul,
the purchasing power of US dollars is
going asymptotically to zero.
It is.
That doesn't mean assets won't
occasionally drop, but it is a reason
why you're probably watching this
channel to begin with. It's because in
order to beat inflation, you know, you
want to be invested in something, right?
Now, I think a well-diversified
portfolio
works pretty well for most people.
Obviously, that's a way you can sort of
slowly grow your wealth.
Taking on large bets can can, you know,
theoretically increase your wealth a lot
if if that's what you're trying to do.
If you can pick out the right things,
but if you've if you're just trying to
like, you know, take what you have and
responsibly grow it,
you know, then then a diversified
portfolio
um is one way to go about it, and that's
why a lot of times
you know, buying the mark the total
market
is is what tends to work out over over
stock picking, okay? But, that doesn't
mean you can't make money in individual
stocks. I own a lot of individual
stocks. But, it it it's it's a much more
difficult game, right? It's much more
difficult game. And and it's one of the
reasons why people just talk about, you
know, just buy index funds and and go
live your life and forget about all this
other stuff. Um but, you know, if you
look if you look at the summary of
economic projections,
they're expecting a rate hike, right? I
mean, there's plenty of committee
members expecting a rate hike. If you
look at the FedWatch tool,
invest you know, market participants
think a rate hike is coming. And
furthermore, if you look at interest
rates,
one of the things to remember is that
the Fed funds rate follows the two-year
yield. So, if you look at the two-year
yield, and actually, let's just set this
to the same price scale. If you look at
the two-year yield, one of the things
you'll notice is that it's heading back
up. And like look throughout history,
right? Look up throughout history. When
the two-year yield starts to really move
up, there is a risk that the Fed may may
have to hike rates. Now, whether they do
or not,
it's a different story, right? I mean,
you can see when the two-year yield
started going up in the in the '60s, the
Fed was forced to hike here. And then
when it started going up again over here
in the late '90s, the Fed was forced to
hike. Now, there are examples where the
two-year yield sort of spikes up, and
and interest rates don't immediately
follow, but if the two-year yield were
to stay elevated, the Fed would
eventually have no choice but to follow
through. Now, for me, this continues to
be a a headwind for assets like Bitcoin,
because they are really dependent on
loose monetary policy. It's one of the
reasons why you've seen crypto
essentially underperform everything this
year.
Um and not just Bitcoin. I mean, the
mostly the entire altcoin market uh with
the exception of a few alts. As always,
I'm not talking about your alt.
But this is, you know, when
it doesn't really matter if the rate
hike happens or not for crypto. It's the
fact that we're pricing it in right now
continues to be a headwind.
And you know, wars came out and
again, he didn't he didn't really
provide forward guidance.
Um
and he he was pretty clear about that.
But
he he's got to be I do not envy his
position. I mean, he's basically put was
put there by Trump to cut rates.
I mean, is it it would be insane
uh in in some ways if the first movie he
eventually makes is to is to raise
rates. But we even speculated about that
a long time ago, maybe like a year or
two ago, or maybe
a year ago, about how
you know, if they if they do start to
run things hot, there is a risk that the
Fed then has to sort of chase those
that that two-year yield back up. And
and there is precedent for it, right?
Like you can see that it has happened
before where the Fed cuts and then they
eventually have to raise rates again. So
it's not like we haven't ever seen that
before. Um
it's probably not about to happen.
Because if you look at at energy prices,
they have come down recently. If you
look like oil, it's actually dropped
back down uh for now
with some of this geopolitical conflict
sort of remaining at bay.
But it's also impossible to know, you
know, what the future holds for all
these energy prices. Because one of the
things you remember is that historically
energy tops after the stock market does,
historically. Like if you look at XLE
and and you look throughout history,
historically, at least in the last two
cycles, it topped after the stock
market. So, XLE, the energy select
sector ETFs, topped in May of 2008. The
stock market topped in October 2007. In
the dot-com era, XLE topped in May of
2001.
Um the stock market topped in March
2000. So,
I mean, unless you're going into a
recession right now, there's a really
good chance that you'll see energy
stocks come back. Um
but again, like, you know, good luck
trying to predict exactly the timing of
that. But, it you know, it is notable
how energy stocks will sort of zigzag
their way up
into sort of like these major tops that
occur. And, you know, there's plenty of
reasons to believe that every single top
is the top along the way, and then it it
it just simply
isn't a lot of times.
And usually, it takes the stock market
durably going down for 6 to 12 months
before energy will really get the memo
that it also needs to go down.
So,
you know, I mean, inflation is still
prevalent right now. Um
and if it continues to head higher, it
it's going to make it very difficult for
the Fed to not raise rates. And so, you
know, we're in a new era with Kevin
Warsh. It looks like forward guidance is
gone.
Um so, I mean, at least today, the
market's down. A lot of times after a
new Fed chair uh sort of assumes his
role,
the S&P will often sort of test it out,
like, test this new Fed chair out, uh
throw him a curveball, and and perhaps
that curveball will be sort of the the
correction that we normally get in the
back half of midterm years. So, I mean,
it's June right now. The back half of
the midterm year is coming up relatively
soon. Um let's see if it plays out. And
if it does, it'll it'll probably test
his resolve and see if he's willing to
raise rates uh in in the face of higher
inflation. or will they elect to just
run things hot and not raise rates? And
and even if they lower rates, I mean,
that would lead to the bond vigilantes
um
getting pretty, you know, coming right
back. And and which would lead to the
long end of the yield curve going
higher.
And I I've said this for a long time
that the 10-year yield is likely heading
back up to the October 2023 highs. And
30-year yield already did. Right? Like
the 30-year yield did already.
These yields are likely going to keep
heading up. And
you know, I don't I don't make the rules
on this stuff, but when you're when you
don't If you're not going to allow lower
asset prices, and you know, if you're
open to running things hot, then yields
are going to go up. Right? I mean, cuz
they're
They're either got to go up or down. And
they're only going to be going down if
the markets were more worried about the
labor market than inflation. But right
now, there's not really a a huge reason
in the current data to be worried about
the labor market. It's more so inflation
that is the chief concern right now, and
that's why you see the long end of the
yield curve continue to head higher. But
those are my views. Uh you know, if you
look at the dollar, I I I've talked
about this before as well. Looks like
the dollar is sort of forming a massive
base down here. And it looks to be
likely breaking out relatively soon,
which also could be a headwind for risk
assets. So, we'll see if that plays out.
But if you guys like the content, make
sure you subscribe to the channel, give
me a thumbs up. And again, check out the
sale on Into The Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.